<H2><I><B>keepraws.py</B></I> is intended to be a handy utility to help manage raw image files.</H2>

I prefer to take photos in Canon's 'raw' image format (.CR2) and process them later, producing final images (.JPG) that I'm happy with.  Typically, I will end up with only a handful of jpegs that I would like to keep despite having shot a great many photos.
<P>I would like to keep only the raw files that correspond to the jpegs that I've produced; .CR2 files are massive and it's simply not worth the drive space keeping all of the shots taken.  If I've photographed a big event I will have shot something like 1000 .CR2 files and, after processing, only around 100 .JPG files will remain (the "Keepers").
  <P>My original .CR2 files reside in a directory called "<B>RAWs</B>" and the processed images are placed in a "<B>JPEGs</B>" directory. <B>keepraws.py</B> examines the filenames of the images in the JPEGs directory and goes looking for the appropriate .CR2 file in the RAWs directory. A bit of regex is used because <B>Darktable</B>, my image processing software, names the jpegs somewhat differently from the original raw image filename;  For example, the raw image from the camera will be of the form "<I>MB__1435.CR2</I>" and the jpeg will thus be "<I>2017-09-21_21-40-00_MB__1435.jpg</I>". If I've worked-up another jpeg from the same raw file, Darktable will name that file "<I>2017-09-21_21-40-00_MB__1435_01.jpg</I>".  Additionally, Darktable will save a metadata file for each raw image and this will be named "<I>MB__1435.CR2.xmp</I>" and, yes, I want these keeping too!
  <P>The retained .CR2 and .CR2.xmp files will be copied into a new "<B>KeptRaws</B>" directory; The original raw images are <B>not deleted</B> by the script.
